# Recap: Form validation
## Overview
In this reading, you will recap form validation to progress with your Little Lemon reserve-a-table forms. The topics revisited in this reading are from [Form design](https://www.coursera.org/learn/principles-of-ux-ui-design/lecture/ctCB8/form-design) in the Principles of UX/UI design course.

## What is form validation?
Form validation is the process of checking that user input in a web form is complete and accurate before it is submitted to the server. This is typically done using JavaScript on the client-side to check that all required fields have been filled out and that the data entered meets certain criteria, such as being a valid email address, hence reducing errors and improving the user experience.

## Form validation types
There are two types of form validation: server-side and client-side. Let’s revisit each concept briefly.

### Server-side
The user completes and submits the form with all the necessary information. The information is transmitted to the server for form validation when the user presses the submit button. The user receives a confirmation or informative error message when the server responds.

### Client-side
These validation alerts appear when the user enters data into the form fields, before being submitted to the server. The validation message, typically shown next to the fields, serves as a prompt for the user to respond immediately.

## The importance of form validation
During the crucial phases of interaction between the user interface and the user, form validation acts as the focal point of communication. Although form validation may appear straightforward and serve only a minor purpose in the overall interface, its importance surpasses all these. Suppose a scenario exists in an application where the user must complete the following processes using forms with user validation:

- Registration or sign-in

- Cart and checkout

Consider the possibility that incomplete form validation would prevent your users from completing these forms. These are the fundamental forms of your user interface and can impact your company. In other words, bad form validation communication will probably result in unsatisfactory business outcomes.

Regardless of the chosen validation method, it's worth considering the following when determining how to provide user feedback:

### Location
Don't display all errors together as a group. Instead, put them precisely next to the respective field where they belong.

### Be understanding
Humanize your language and inform your users of the error. Make suggestions to your users to ensure they receive the correct information quickly and easily.

### Be adaptable
Whenever you can, do this. Be flexible and open-minded when providing your input to avoid upsetting or infuriating users.

## Conclusion
In this reading, you recapped the concept of form validation and the various methods you can use. For best practice in form design, please revisit the lesson item on [Form design best practice](https://www.coursera.org/learn/principles-of-ux-ui-design/supplement/ZV1NA/form-design-best-practice) in the Principles of UX/UI design course.