# Overview
Your web app needs to be accessible, so, in this reading, you will recap what you have already learned in previous courses to ensure your project is accessible to all.

# Content
Making websites usable for all users, including those with disabilities, impairments and limits, is known as web accessibility. These restrictions or disabilities may include:

- blindness

- poor vision

- difficulty learning

- other cognitive impairments

- deafness

- loss of hearing

- speech impairments

By following specific design guidelines for the web, accessibility ensures that users with disabilities or restrictions enjoy an experience that is at least comparable to that of non-disabled users.  Website accessibility is crucial since it gives all users equal access to your material. Digital accessibility must be implemented. It’s not optional. In most developed countries, websites and mobile applications must adhere to regulations that prevent discrimination against individuals with disabilities. 

# Elements of web accessibility
The four major elements to concentrate on while developing an accessible website are outlined in the WCAG (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines)and standards. These are published by the World Wide Web Consortium's (W3C) Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI).  These four principles, which contain online accessibility recommendations that you can use as a guide and strive to implement on your site whenever and wherever it is practical, will each be recapped below.

### Perceivable
The information and content on your website must be perceived, understood and known by visitors. Users who are blind or have impaired vision frequently use screen-reader software, transforming a written text into synthesized speech or braille letters. Remember that perceiving doesn't necessarily mean seeing with one's eyes.

### Operable
The use of operable websites is possible without interfering in any way with the user. Every feature of the website's functionality must be accessible to all users, including page navigation, link selection from a menu and the ability to play and pause audio and video. In general, the most usable websites are plain, uncomplicated and devoid of any unnecessary functionality that can obstruct users with disabilities and limits.

### Understandable
Visitors should be able to quickly understand all your website's material, including its textual and graphic design content. Verbose, jumbled language is complex for your average visitor to understand and restricts access for those with cognitive issues and impairments and visitors who do not speak the primary language of your website. This idea also applies to the organization of your website. Your website's navigation should be easily accessible to users on most, if not all, of your pages, and it should be organized logically.

### Robust
All visitors to your website, including those who use assistive technology like screen readers should readily understand and consume the material.

# Conclusion 
In this reading, you revisited the concept of accessibility and how it can be implemented to make websites and web applications usable for all users. By concentrating on your website's level of accessibility, you'll improve UX for every visitor and demonstrate to your users that you value their business and care about them as individuals, increasing their loyalty to and support for your business.

To explore some of these topics further, you can revisit the [Designing for accessibility](https://www.coursera.org/learn/principles-of-ux-ui-design/supplement/W853U/designing-for-accessibility) lesson item in the Principles of UX/UI design course.
