# Recap: UX and UI usability evaluation
## Overview
In this reading, you will revisit the design evaluation methodologies described in a previous course. Applying all or some of these methodologies will help you create a wonderful experience for the users of your Little Lemon reserve-a-table web app. 

## How do you determine whether your products are genuinely usable? 
At first impression, the term usability might appear too abstract or biased to ever truly determine whether your products are usable. However, usability is crucial whether you're building a login page, a search interface or anything else you can think of!

Heuristics are measurements that can be used to determine how usable your products are. Heuristics are helpful benchmarks when used independently. But when combined with usability testing, heuristics can (re)shape your design. The word `heuristics` simply refers to rules. Rigid guidelines are tough to articulate in UX design. There is no foolproof method to design experiences that are certain to succeed.  Instead, you can use principles to direct your design work and evaluate your creation before user testing.

Researchers and leaders have made various product and UI design recommendations. Some of the most notable are Dieter Rams, Ben Shneiderman and Jacob Nielson.

### Dieter Rams
For many years, German industrial designer Dieter Rams oversaw the creation of Braun's consumer goods. About 50 years ago, he created the `10 principles of good design`, commonly referred to as the ten commandments, to address the question, Is my design a good design? These ideas continue to be relevant today.

### Ben Shneiderman
Shneiderman teaches computer science at the University of Maryland Human-Computer Interaction Lab in College Park. In human-computer interaction, he undertakes fundamental research, creating innovative concepts, procedures and tools, including the direct manipulation of interface and the `eight golden rules of interface design.`

### Jakob Nielson
User advocate Jakob Nielsen is the principal of the Nielsen Norman Group, which he co-founded with Dr. Donald A. Norman (former VP of research at Apple Computer). Dr. Nielsen founded the discount usability engineering movement for quick and affordable UI changes and devised the `10 usability heuristics` . Jakob Nielsen's heuristics were developed based on work together with Rolf Molich in 1990 and are probably the most-used usability heuristics for UI design.

## Conclusion
You have revisited UX and UI evaluation methodologies and how and where these can be applied to improve your designs. You can now apply these to assess your project. For even more information on Dieter Rams’ 10 principles of good design, Ben Shneidermans’ 8 golden rules and Jakob Nielson’s 10 usability heuristics, you can revisit the [Evaluation cheat sheets](https://www.coursera.org/learn/principles-of-ux-ui-design/supplement/jl2AI/evaluation-cheat-sheets) lesson item in the Principles of UX and UI design course.

