# Exercise: Setting up the React project
## Overview
You previously discovered that instead of building a new React project from scratch, you can cut down on the initial steps by starting from a boilerplate project. However, you’ll first want to set up a few things to make this a streamlined process. In this exercise, you will set up a React project and tweak the resulting default boilerplate.

## Scenario
So far, you have been preparing to create the reserve-a-table function for the Little Lemon website. As a part of this process, it is now time to set up your React project properly.

Note: Before you begin, this exercise assumes that you are using the VS Code editor as your editor of choice. However, it is possible to use other editors to achieve similar results. If you are using another editor, you may use this exercise as a pointer and demonstration of how things are done in VS Code.

VS Code comes with many extensions that can help you when developing applications in any kind of technology and React is no different. There are numerous extensions that you have available at your disposal to make your React development a smoother and more efficient experience. In the steps that follow, you'll set up a few React-specific extensions, including:

 - ES7+ React/Redux/GraphQL/React-Native

 - Auto Rename Tag 

 - Trailing Spaces 

You’ll also clean up your starter app’s code.

## Instructions
### Step 1: Setup the ES7+ React/Redux/GraphQL/React-Native VS Code extension
Add the [ES7+ React/Redux/GraphQL/React-Native VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dsznajder.es7-react-js-snippets)
. This extension provides you with JavaScript and React/Redux snippets in ES7+ with Babel plugin features for VS Code.

### Step 2: Setup the Auto Rename Tag VS Code extension
Add the [Auto Rename Tag VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=formulahendry.auto-rename-tag)
. This extension makes it possible to automatically rename the paired HTML/XML tag as Visual Studio IDE does.

### Step 3: Setup the Trailing Spaces VS Code extension
Add the [Trailing Spaces VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=shardulm94.trailing-spaces)
. This extension allows you to highlight and delete trailing spaces. It’s also useful when working with Git to help you spot accidental whitespace addictions more easily and prevent unnecessary commits.

### Step 4: Create the React project
Use `create-react-app` to create the Little Lemon project.

Tip: Refer to the previous recap reading for guidelines.

### Step 5: Remove the starter app's boilerplate code from App.js
Open the project in Visual Studio Code. create-react-app generates some code in the App.js file that we will not need for the project.

Remove all the code in between the returned div with the classname of App.

Add some text in between the opening and closing div tags, such as Homepage, for the time being.

### Step 6: Remove the starter app's logo.svg file
Delete the logo.svg file from the app and delete its import from the App.js file.

### Conclusion
By completing this exercise, you have set up and altered the default boilerplate React project in preparation to build the full application. Well done.